---
layout: post
tags: 
- philosophical 
- domestic
author: Michael-Gallagher
---
Let's make one thing clear: the "enhanced interrogation techniques" discussed in this bill is nothing short of torture. You can use whatever terminology you want, but waterboarding, sleep deprivation, subjection to extreme cold, and other methods are just not okay to use on another human being. We must affirm this bill to stop this "enhanced interrogation" because it violates human rights, and because it is ineffective.

In Article 5 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, it says "No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment." As members of the United Nations, we should be complying with the standards they set, especially for something as important as human rights. However, our own constitution even warns against torture. In the 8th amendment to the constitution, it says that cruel and unusual punishment shall not be inflicted. Regardless of whether someone is trying to get information from someone else, the methods in use are pretty much a punishment for being involved in whatever terrible thing they were involved in. So why are we using these techniques? The government argues it's not for punishment, but to get information. However, even that doesn't work out.

This can be best substantiated by retired Army General Stanly McChrystal, "…We used them a little bit in the first few months I took over and then just stopped because one, we realized- I didn't feel good about it and they weren't working so we did away- it took me about 9 months before I was completely convinced, the summer of 2004, completely convinced the only way to operate is…sitting down and just talking with people." As Glenn Carle, former CIA officer says, "torture does not work, it is illegal, and professional intelligence, military, and law-enforcement officers who have had firsthand experience have been explicit that enhanced interrogation techniques undermine operational success." In a report released in 2009, the CIA's own inspector general found no evidence that the agency's practices stopped any imminent attacks. But furthermore, the information may be falsified. Look at the example of Ibn al-Shaykh al-Libi, a terrorist from Al-Qaeda. He was sent to Egypt for interrogation, where he told interrogators that Saddam Hussein was supplying weapons to them. Later he admitted it was false, and he told them what they wanted to hear. Deprivation of food and sleep also causes detainees to remember less.Charles Morgan, a professor of psychiatry at Yale, analyzed the recollections of active-duty military personnel who were denied food and sleep for 48 hours, during advanced military survival training. He then interrogated them and found that those deprived of food and sleep were giving inaccurate information, even when they were telling the truth.

To sum it all up, the United States uses the acquiring of information as an excuse for blatant human rights violations, which isn't even valid when you see how ineffective it is. For these reasons, we must affirm this bill.
