---
layout: post
tags: 
- theory
author: Lorenzo-Barberis-Canonico
---

Marxism was not originally intended to be a theory of international organization. As more Marxists came into power, however, Marx's theories were expanded to explain how nations relate to one another. Like realism and liberalism, Marxism is built upon four basic assumptions: 

1. Global capitalism determines the position and behavior of actors in international affairs. Consequently, Marxism shifts the focus of study from political features of the international system (like its absence of a world government to deter aggression) to its economic ones--capitalism, not anarchy, is what shapes the way that states relate to one another. 

2. Socio-economic classes are the principle actors in international politics, not individuals or nations. Nations are classified by their place in the world market: Core nations are industrialized states which provide capital to the global economy, as well has highly skilled and well-paid labor. Periphery states provide raw material and cheap labor. Semiperiphery states are newly industrializing nations that provide cheap skilled and semiskilled laborn (examples are Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Brazil). Core states exploit the periphery and the semi-periphery for their own economic ends. In the colonialist era, this was accomplished by conquering and colonizing new territory. Today, core nations exploit third world countries by underpaying their workers and using them as a cheap source of raw material (ie all the Nike factories in Indonesia). The semi-periphery is similarly exploited, but their skilled workers suffer most--as the wages for skilled workers become too high in the core and as the core shifts from production to service oriented enterprises (ie telecommunications systems), manufacturing jobs are shifted to the semiperiphery, where workers can be paid less. This exploiation leads to poor terms of trade, in which the core's exports are highly valued by the semiperiphery's and the periphery's are not. 

3. International relations are essentially conflictual. Unlike realists, Marxists believe that conflict has nothing to do with the absence of a higher governmental authority; instead, it is naturally bred by class conflict and exploitation. 

4. Economic (and not strategic or security) issues are most important to understanding international affairs. Even seemingly political issues are rooted in economics. Wars occur primarily over access to markets, labor, and resources. Wars are fueled by exploitation of the periphery because it is only through this exploitation that governments can finance their armies. 
