---
layout: post
tags: domestic
author: Michael-Gallagher
---
We live in an era where almost any known information is at our fingertips.  It is seen as a violation of our rights when governments and companies hide things from us.  As citizens of the United States, as humans, we have the right to know.  This is why I think it is completely reasonable to require the labeling of genetically modified foods, not only because of our right to know, but because of the possible dangers of GMOs.

Living in America should be a promise for freedom.  Companies can’t just not tell us information about our food.  If they are already required to list ingredients, why should they not need to say if the food is genetically altered?  At least 64 countries have some sort of mandatory labeling.  Even some of our own states have it, such as Illinois, Massachusetts, and Pennsylvania.  Besides that, in 2003, the Grocery Manufacturers Association estimated that 70-75% of conventional processed foods contained GMOs.  GMOs haven’t slowed down since then, so the number would be even higher now.  Most of these aren’t labeled, and with such a high percentage, it’s also unlikely that everyone would just boycott every processed food.

People also need to know about GMOs because of the possible dangers of them.  There is already a law that requires companies to label GMOs that have something significantly different from what is expected.  For example, when certain GMOs have a peanut protein that could trigger an allergy.  Those are things that without a doubt are dangerous, but there are some disputed effects of GMOs.  They are thought by some to cause poisoning, death, sterility, or organ failure in animals and humans.  Whether or not you believe in these effects, some people just don’t feel comfortable eating GMOs and need a way to stay away from them.  Researchers from the Jiangsu Engineering Research Center for microRNA Biology and Biotechnology found that some molecules may stay behind in human bodies, like an RNA in rice that makes people take in more cholesterol.  People need to know what they’re eating in case those things start happening on a widespread basis.

So, because of our rights to know what we’re eating and to be safe, mandatory GMO labeling must be enforced.  After all, if we don’t even have a way in what companies are putting in our stomachs, then who can we turn to?


