---
layout: post
tags: 
- theory
author: Lorenzo-Barberis-Canonico
---

Democratic revolution and economic reform in Communist countries or in countries run by dictatorships requires a complete change in the mindset of both leaders and their people. This page seeks to explain a few of the difficulties involved in such a transition. Many of the ideas presented come from Boris Yeltsin's new book The Midnight Diaries . Although the situations he describes obviously occurred in Russia, the underlying problems are present in many nations that must change their government. Recognizing these common threads in foreign politics is a very valuable skill for extempers. If you can do so, you can present credible analysis of many situations with which you might not be familiar. For instance, if you are well-studied in the difficulties of political and economic reforms, you can apply this knowledge to any question regarding democratization and privatization in any country (though obviously you'll still need to fill in some specifics). Following is a brief list of problems which most new democracies face 

Inflation Having grown up in an exclusively free-market society, most of us take features of the free market economy for granted. For instance, each region in the United States has some mix of industries--in every state, there are at least some factories, a few farms, and centers for services like telecommunications. In state-run economies, however, this is not the case. In large countries, each region is often specialized: one area will grow food, while another will be a center for manufacturing and so on. The state can create jobs by hiring people to disseminate goods created in one area to other parts of the country. Because the state controls prices, food imported from say St. Petersburg is not intolerably expensive on the other side of the country. But once the free market takes over, regions face two problems: first, they have an excess of the good they specialize in producing (let's say autoparts), which makes them very very cheap; second, they have almost none of the goods that they imported from other areas (like food), meaning that it is very very expensive. This is one of the reasons that inflation is such a large problem newly democratizing countries. To control it, leaders must be prepared to help people develop new industries in their area. 

Oligarchy An oligarchy occurs when a small group of people, who are often very rich, control the government, either directly or indirectly. In Midnight Diaries , Boris Yeltsin explains how rich businessmen came to dominate the Russian government: The first step in creating a free market economy is creating private property. This means that state property must be either given away or sold. Typically, private individuals become owners of their homes, their cars, and land that they have worked. The average person, however, cannot usually afford to buy stock or purchase formerly state-owned factories. Consequently, in Russia, the only people who became owners of banks and industries were a few very rich, powerful people who could secure large loans and foreign investors. They in turn had the biggest interest in maintaing a democratic government: they had invested hundreds of millions of dollars into the economy and they knew that if communists regained control of the government, their very first official act would be to take back private property. Thus, they flocked to Boris Yeltsin's faltering 1996 presidential campaign, providing it with much of the capital and manpower necessary to secure a victory. Next, they used their resources to lobby politicians and to buy up newspapers, magazines, and television stations which they used to spread misinformation about officials who did not support their goals. This cycle is a problem is not unique to Russia--it can happen in any country which must sell off its industries to private owners. To combat it, governments need to make strict rules about lobbying to prevent businessmen from "buying" public officials, pass laws against slander and libel, and set limits on the number of media operations that one individual (or corporation) can own. 

The Military To keep a large population oppressed, the government must maintain close ties to the military. Consequently, the armed forces have a great deal of power in countries ruled by dictatorships. Even in democracies, the military can still be dangerous because it alone possesses large volumes of weaponry. Generals who see themselves losing power to a civilian run government can choose to stage an outright coup or to attempt to run the government from behind the scenes. To prevent this, most nations make their democratically elected head of state the commander and chief of the armed forces. They reason that because he has an interest in being re-elected, he will not risk losing popularity by using the military to deprive people of their rights. This single precaution, however, is not enough. The military can easily dominate a single person, and they can use force to prevent citizens from ousting him. This is why separation of powers in the government is important. In the United States, for instance, the President can give orders to the military but he cannot provide the money to carry them out. Only Congress can do that, and while it's conceivable that a group of power-hungry generals could come to dominate the executive branch, it would take considerably more effort to dominate all 535 of our congressmen as well. 
