---
layout: post
tags: 
- econ 
- foreign 
- domestic
author: Will-Tapp
---
I am here to tell you senators that we cannot pass this piece of legislation for three main reasons. The affects it has on the United States is minimal and is widely perceived as a negative effect, NAFTA is hurting Mexico and will hurt the countries economically that this legislation wants to extend NAFTA too, and will increase outsourcing.

My first contention: NAFTA isn't helping the United States. NAFTA was supposed to increase domestic competition between the three included countries by getting rid of taxes between the three countries. This means that each countries businesses would have to compete with each other and not just with the businesses within their respective country. The only problem is that the United States is no longer a majorly manufacturing country. Over the past few decades the United States has been increasing in the Service industry which includes doctors, lawyers, and teachers. On the other hand Mexico is a highly industrial and agricultural country. Therefore U.S. distributors would rather import goods from Mexico and Canada than to buy the same goods from the United States. NAFTA has only made this process of taking from American manufacturers easier by removing the tariffs from the trade between countries. A study done by the International trade commission showed that United states imports was at 700 billion while the united states exports was at 500 billion. This is a 200 billion dollar deficit.

My second contention: NAFTA is hurting Mexico and could potentially hurt other countries if it were to be extended. Although Mexican manufacturing companies are getting richer the poor are still getting poorer. The average income rate has increased by 2000 dollars in Mexico but this is a measly number compared to the most successful countries in south America like Brazil, Chile and Peru. The organization for economic cooperation and development reported that Mexico's annual income average was about 8000 dollars while Chile's is at 23 thousand dollars. Another way NAFTA hurts Mexico is in the agricultural region. Because of the lift on tariffs Mexico has to compete with the United States highly subsidized agricultural department which means that Mexican supermarkets are importing united states crops which is hurting the Mexican economy. The same will happen to other countries if this legislation is passed.

My third contention is that this legislation will increase outsourcing. The minimum wage in Haiti is the equivalent of 4 dollars an hour. This is 3 dollars lower than the United states minimum wage but to a business 3 dollars multiplied by the number of workers is a lot. If we put this legislation in to place businesses will be able to go to Haiti to get labor and then force the united states to import said goods that the business will be creating. So basically a business originating in the united states will move to a different country and then sell its goods back to us for a higher price.

For these three reasons senators we must negate this bill.
