---
layout: post
tags: 
- conlaw 
- domestic
author: Michael-Gallagher
---
Before we entered office, each and every one of us took an oath, swearing to "support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic". It's because our highest obligation as statesmen is to protect the founding document of our great country from legislation that undermines its principles that I stand in negation of today's legislation, because it undermines the rights of the states.

This is true first of all because this bill fails at providing an incentive for the states to comply with this new federal policy. The 10th amendment reads that "The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people". Clearly the constitution does not give the power to the federal government to regulate things like vaccines or drinking ages, which the Supreme Court agreed with in South Dakota v Dole. In that case they ruled that the only way the federal government could set a national drinking age would be through something like the National Minimum Drinking Age Act, that cuts by 10% highway funding to any state that allows people under 21 years old to purchase alcohol because it falls under the Taxing and Spending Clause in Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution. The problem with today's legislation however is that it does not tell us how this new law will be enforced, and this bill says at the bottom that "all laws in conflict with this legislation are hereby declared null and void". This means that, since many states offer their own vaccination requirements with medical, religious, or philosophical exemptions, these laws would be null and void, and the states will have to revoke their exemptions.

Therefore, since the federal government is not providing an economic incentive for the states to comply with a new drinking age, it's doing something far worse: it's infringing upon the states rights granted by the 10th amendment. In New York v. United States, the Supreme Court ruled that the federal government cannot force the states to follow any federal program unless funding is provided because it would be a clear violation of the 10th amendment. This is exactly what is happening with today's bill because the federal government is simply telling the states what to do, and forcing every single state to require vaccinations when really each state has the individual right to set their own vaccine laws.
