---
layout: post
tags: domestic
author: Michael-Gallagher
---
In 1935, journalist H.L. Mencken wrote, “Prohibition has not only failed in its promises but actually created additional serious and disturbing social problems throughout society.  There is not less drunkenness in the Republic, but more.  There is not less crime, but more.  The cost of government is not smaller, but vastly greater.  Respect for the law has not increased, but diminished.”  So, just as the Prohibition caused much spending and gave rise to gangsters and, the banning of prostitution and recreational drugs have also caused violence and heavy spending.  We need to affirm this bill and legalize them to promote safety and regulation.

The only thing worse than legal drugs is illegal drugs.  Right now, the only people who make recreational drugs are criminals.  Many don’t know the real methods of producing these products, so unsafe drugs are available on the streets, such as when 22 people died in Pittsburgh from lethal heroin last February, which was made with a mix of deadly chemicals that should never have been mixed.  With licensed doctors and real scientists working on drugs, the can become safer.  With legitimate businesses selling drugs, there would be no underground business which often results in violence.  There would be a lot fewer diseases spread because real businesses would use safer business practices, including using clean needles.  People would stop teaching false, exaggerated information about drug use and people would know actual risks and could decide for themselves whether they are willing to take those risks.

The safety and regulations would also apply to prostitution.  Right now, it is a very dodgy sort of business to be in because of the illegality.  Many sex workers are abused or even raped by employers and clients, and the police often don’t put much effort into investigating these things because of the fact that prostitution is illegal in itself.  If prostitution was legalized, the sex workers would then have rights as workers and would have protection from the law.  They could form unions and even go on strike, so they could work to improve the conditions of their trade.  With regulation and the requirement of licensing, the workers could be taught how to reduce the risk of sexually transmitted diseases.  They could even get regular tests to see if they have the diseases and prevent their spreading.  The illegality of prostitution and drugs is what causes most of their danger.

Prostitution and recreational drugs go hand in hand.  The National Institute of Health reports that about 70% of sex workers have a drug problem.  If these two things are legalized, then they can make the lives of the sex workers much better, and they can stop many of the dangers currently caused by recreational drugs and their sale.  Through regulation, these things can be better, and I think it works in all of our interests if we affirm this bill.
