---
layout: post
tags: 
- domestic 
- philosophical
author: Michael-Gallagher
---
A popular saying about capital punishment says that "Those without the capital get the punishment." Right now, the one who can't afford to pay for more executions is the federal government. Even worse, the government has to pay more money, and they can't even manage to do them right. For these reasons, representatives, we must affirm this resolution to amend the constitution and abolish the death penalty.

Firstly, using the death penalty is too expensive. The country needs to cut back on certain things in order to keep having money for essential programs, such as health care or retirement benefits, to name a few. Stopping the death penalty will actually save us more money, as using the death penalty system is more expensive than life without parole. This may sound strange, but that's because it requires two trials. The first, to determine innocence or guilt, and the second, to determine if they deserve death. This process takes hundreds or even hours of paid hours for lawyers, judges, clerks, and investigators. A federal commission found in 2010 that seeing a death sentence through to execution costs 8 times as much as a life sentence. Duke University professor Philip J. Cook concluded that North Carolina could save $11 million per year. California's excess costs for the death penalty have been estimated to be as much as $200 million per year. Liberty County prosecutor Stephen Taylor from Texas told a reporter last year that cost is a factor in deciding the death penalty. If Texas has reached that point, it should be an indication that the rest of the country needs to pull back.

However, the executions are also carried out terribly. One example is double-murderer Joseph Wood, who was executed in Arizona on July 23, 2014. His death by lethal injection took two hours, with him gasping and snorting the whole time. It was described as "botched", and should have taken 10 minutes. 10 minutes may still be too long to spend dying. There are many more examples of botched executions. What happens beforehand is also flawed. Right now, there are 3 men in Florida who have been on death-row for 40 years. In those 40 years, Florida has executed 90 men. That means it would take 175 to clear out their current death-row population. Out of all 14 people executed in the US this year, not one spent less than 10 years on death-row. Speeding it up isn't a viable option, either. More than 150 innocent death-row prisoners were set free since 1975. In 2014, Wiley Bridgeman from Ohio was found to be innocent 39 years after his original sentence. The slow process is already inefficient, but speeding it up would cause us to be an unjust government that can't reverse its decisions.

So, because we simply can't afford to keep giving out the death penalty, and because the actual system is both inefficient and inhumane, we must affirm this resolution and abolish the death penalty.
