---
layout: post
tags:
- domestic
- econ
author: Michael-Gallagher
---
In 1935, journalist H.L. Mencken wrote, “Prohibition has not only failed in its promises but actually created additional serious and disturbing social problems throughout society.  There is not less drunkenness in the Republic, but more.  There is not less crime, but more.  The cost of government is not smaller, but vastly greater.  Respect for the law has not increased, but diminished.”  So, just as the Prohibition caused much spending and gave rise to gangsters and, the banning of recreational drugs has also caused violence and heavy spending.  We need to affirm this bill and legalize them to promote safety and regulation.

The only thing worse than legal drugs is illegal drugs.  Right now, the only people who make recreational drugs are criminals.  Many don’t know the real methods of producing these products, so unsafe drugs are available on the streets, such as when 22 people died in Pittsburgh from lethal heroin last February, which was made with a mix of deadly chemicals that should never have been mixed.  With licensed doctors and real scientists working on drugs, the can become safer.  With legitimate businesses selling drugs, there would be no underground business which often results in violence.  There would be a lot fewer diseases spread because real businesses would use safer business practices, including using clean needles.  People would stop teaching false, exaggerated information about drug use and people would know actual risks and could decide for themselves whether they are willing to take those risks.

Secondly, this bill would save a lot of money.  Over $1 trillion has been spent in the war on drugs.  A lot of money is spent on our prisons, and the US Department of Justice estimated that in December 2013, 50% of males & 58% of females in federal prison were there on drug charges.  Many of them are just there for possession, which in itself is a nonviolent crime.  Having half as many people in federal prison would definitely save the government a lot of money.  The Cato Institute suggested in 2010 that legalizing drugs would save about $41 billion in enforcement costs.  Money could even be made by taxing, as the Cato Institute also suggested that $46.7 billion could be made by taxing drugs at rates similar to alcohol & tobacco.  If you really want people to stop doing drugs, you could put the same kinds of taxes and warnings on them that are on cigarettes, which are made to make people quit, like the bill suggests.

Legalization can stop many of the dangers currently caused by recreational drugs and their sale.  Through regulation, these things can be better, and I think it works in all of our interests if we affirm this bill.

