---
layout: post
tags: foreign
author: Michael-Gallagher
---
Years before I was elected to Congress, the bus broke down on the way from my first high school speech and debate tournament.  The engine started smoking, so we pulled over into a Petco parking lot.  Many of us didn’t have water bottles, snacks, or cell phone battery.  Two hours later, after someone had an asthma attack and had to borrow the only inhaler on the bus, another bus came to pick us up.  Somalia, having minimal medicine, food, power, and water, is essentially a broken bus in a Petco parking lot.  Difference is, now we are the bus that has to come return them to the rest of civilization.  I rise to the affirmative on the bill to extend Power Africa to Somalia, first because of the need for power to stabilize Somalia, and second, for the economic benefits from stabilizing Somalia.

Some of you may be looking for physical, maybe even economic incentives for helping Somalia.  Well, it’s no secret that Somalia has large oil deposits.  It’s also no secret that the United States often unnecessarily joins conflicts over oil.  But this time, we aren’t fighting anyone.  We are just helping in order to get the oil.  Before many of Somalia’s problems began, four American petroleum giants had agreements to use the oil.  If electricity and infrastructure is restored, those American companies could go back for the oil.  Even if you don’t care about the economic benefits, it could affect us on a more personal level by getting us cheaper gas, which we all would benefit from.

Power Africa is a branch of USAID that provides power to Sub-Saharan Africa, 70% of which has no power.  USAID is already in Somalia, but they provide food-for-work programs and other emergency assistance.  They also provide education and training that reduces the appeal of extremism.  Education becomes much easier if we have power and resources to do it with.  We need to help them build infrastructure so they can finally work out some stability.  Everyone in American education, or any other successful education system, assumes that kids have computers or other technology to do work with.  If they don’t, they can use computers at schools and libraries.  Now imagine you have no computers, and neither does your school.  Imagine if you didn’t even have light bulbs to read your books or write.  Somalia is currently ranked 173rd out of 195 countries by electricity generation.  The capital, Mogadishu, got its first street lights in 2012, and only with help from the Norwegian government.  The first step for stability in Somalia is to provide power to run the country.  Somalia is different from other countries because of its oil deposits.  If it were able to use the electricity to industrialize and modernize, then they could take advantage of the oil themselves and sustain their power unlike the other African countries which receive aid from the U.S.  We would be able to make a lasting change there.

I don’t even know what we would have done if we hadn’t gotten another bus to pick us up from that parking lot.  Somalia definitely can’t depend on its own government to be that bus.  It needs someone else to come and get it out of its sad situation and into prosperity, and we can even get something out of it, too.  For these reasons, I urge you to vote affirmative. 
