---
layout: post
tags: 
- theory
author: Lorenzo-Barberis-Canonico
---

Realism makes four basic assumptions about international relations: 

1. The state is the most important actor in international relations. This means that national governments are the most important player in the game of international politics--interest groups like Amnesty International or individual figures like the pope have no effect on how nations relate to one another. 

2. The state is a unitary and rational actor. Unitary means that "the state speaks with one voice;" although members of a nation may have many different views on the best approach to a situation, only one approach will be enacted. Rational means that the state is capable of "identifying goals and preferences and determining their relative importance." This is sometimes called the "black box assumption" because it posits that domestic actors (like Congress) have no effect on how a nation conducts its international affairs--leaders act only in what they believe to be their national interest and are not diverted by political games. 

3. International relations are essential conflictual because of anarchy. In this case, anarchy does not mean chaos--instead it refers to the absence of a higher authority to prevent aggression or arbitrate disputes. Just as men might run amok and attack one another without the government to punish them, nations will attack one another so long as they believe it in their best interest. Anarchy also compels states to arm themseves in order to feel secure. The stockpiling of arms and the building of a military, however, are provocative actions which prompt neighboring states to feel insecure and build up their own weapons. If many states engage in this behavior all at once, the result is a powder keg which can easily erupt into violence (as in pre-world war II Europe). If, however, there two evenly matched powers launch an arms race, the result is a tense but more stable situation--each side, though hostile, has incentive to keep the peace because a war would lead to a stalemate or mutual destruction (an example of this behavior is the US and the Soviet Union during the Cold War--each side was eager to gain dominance, but both pulled back from the brink of war because neither believed it could win).

4. Security and strategic issues, known as high politics, dominate the international agenda. This means that states' paramount goal is to maximize their power in the international community, and that they are primarily concerned with military power. An example of a nation operating according to this maxim is North Korea in the early 90s--the downfall of the Soviet Union left them without Communist allies, so they began a nuclear weapons development program and threw out UN observers. They believed that if their government gained nuclear power, it would survive in the international community because other countries would fear them. As a February 1996 edition of "Economist" put it, "if you're alone and you have no friends, cultivating an image of yourself as a wild gun-toting maniac is not the worst you can do for yourself." Ohter issues like human rights or the environment are not of primary importance. Some realists, however, believe that economics is important as well. They argue that states should develop dominant, assymetrical relationshps with others and manipulate them to their advantage. An example of this would be for one country to make another dependent upon its exports. This philosophy was practiced by the imperialists before WWI--their colonies had few independent means of production, and they deliberately left the natives uneducated, thus forcing the colonies to buy their sovreign country's goods. 

From these basic assumptions, realism makes 4 claims about the nature of international organization: 

1. States value relative gains in power over absolute gains in power. Relative gains are advantages in comparison to a specific country or group; absolute gains are gains that propel a state toward the best or most power it can possibly have. States that value relative power care most about their place in the international system, while states that value absolute power value maximizing their well-being over all. Consider an analogy outside of international relations: If you get a makeover before prom so that you look the best that you possibly can, you value an absolute gain. If, however, your goal is to look better than the evil backstabbing bitch who stole your boyfriend, you value relative gains. An example of states that currently emphasize relative gains are India and Pakistan. Both of them maintain a strong military and have developed nuclear weapons, but their primary goals are not to enhance their over all status but to gain an advantage relative to one another. From these examples, we can conclude that valuing relative gains fosters rivalries, while valuing absolute gains fosters cooperation, or at least it reduces the chances of creating hostility. 

2. Distribution of power tends to be balanced. Balancing refers to states' natural inclination to build arms or make alliances to prevent another state from becoming too powerful. If power is balanced, war will result in a stalemate, so no state has an incentive to attack. When power is concentrated in one state, it will want to attack because it is an opportunity to increase its power without jeopardizing its security. Realists believe that states which do not attempt to balance will be removed from the international system via conquest. 

3. Bipolar systems are more stable than multipolar system. A bipolar system is one in which there are two evenly matched powers, for instance, the US and the Soviet Union during the Cold War. A multipolar system is one in which power is scattered among three or more countries. To understand why bipolar systems are more stable, consider the current situation in the Middle East. No two nations in the Middle East are a great deal more powerful than all of the rest (though some disparities in power do exist), and the nations are not organized into two competing groups. Instead, each country has a tangled web of rivalries and friendships. The political situation there is perpetually tense because each nation must be alert for threats from many potential adversaries, and there is great possibility for misunderstanding or misjudgments of the situation. In contrast, during the Cold War, the United States knew that its enemies were Communists and its allies were anyone who was not a Communist. Much less intelligence-gathering and guesswork was involved recognizing potential threats, and the US did not have to fear hostilities from multiple fronts. 

4. Cooperation in the international system is difficult and unlikely. Because states are primarily concerned with maximizing their power, they are afraid to trust one another. For instance, during the Cold War (and even today to some extent), the US and Russia did not want to create an arms control treaty. The United States feared that Russia would continue to develop weapons while the US abided by the terms of the treaty and reduced its arms production. This logically follows from the realists' belief that states will seek to maximize their power so long as it will not jeopardize its security. If your partner has promised not to make any weapons to counter the ones that you develop, you can only gain power by defecting from the treaty. In such an environment, every state has an incentive to break agreements, and consequently cooperation is unlikely. 

