---
layout: post
tags: 
- domestic 
- conlaw 
- philosophical
author: Michael-Gallagher
---
Civil forfeiture laws allow the government to take cash, cars, homes and other property suspected of being involved in criminal activity. Unlike criminal forfeiture, with civil forfeiture, the property owner doesn't have to be charged with, let alone convicted of, a crime to permanently lose his property. In other words, it's state sanctioned theft. Currently, the law requires the property owner to have the burden of proof that they are innocent, rather than the other way around. We must affirm this resolution and change that because it is simply unfair to take property away from people who have done nothing wrong, and even more wrong when police misuse the funds.

There are too many cases where innocent people have their property taken from them. In fact, 80% of people who had belongings seized were never charged with a crime. Take Lyndon McLellan, for example. There is a law in place that requires banks to report deposits of over $10,000. Lyndon made a series of deposits of just under $10,000 in 24 hours. It was his savings from his convenience store that he had owned for 13 years, so most of his earnings were in cash. The IRS seized the entire $107,000 from him. Then there's the case of the Sourivelis family. Their son was found selling about $40 worth of heroin. The Philadelphia police seized the entire house because he was selling heroin out of it. According to records from Pennsylvania's attorney general, nearly 500 Pennsylvania families had their cars or homes taken in two years. And according to CNN, North Carolina is the only state that requires a person to be guilty for police to take their property. But in all of these cases, it takes months or even years to get your belongings back, and the state doesn't even pay for your lawyer. Everything about the civil forfeiture system is unfair for normal citizens, but passing this resolution is a very important first step.

Second, the police often misuse the funds that they get from civil forfeiture. If they were required to have the burden of proof, they would keep a significantly lower amount of the things taken, and would have less money to spend frivolously. Pennsylvania state records show $7 million of the last 3 years' forfeitures went straight to salaries for police officers. In that time period, however, the D.A office spent none of the money on local drug and crime fighting programs. The Institute for Justice made a list of outlandish items bought by the police using civil forfeiture gains. One of which was a sheriff's office in Georgia which bought a $90,000 sports car for their D.A.R.E. program. The Institute also reported trips to Hawaii and casinos, and even margarita machines.

There is so much injustice in the current civil forfeiture system. The tiny amount of good things that they use money for is drowned out by all of the abuse. Part of the abuse comes from the unjust seizure of belongings, property, and cash. The rest comes from misuse of the funds seized. We can at least cut down on the number of people that this happens to by affirming this resolution and making the police have the burden of proof. Thank you.
