---
layout: post
tags: 
- domestic
- conlaw
author: Lorenzo-Barberis-Canonico
---

The most resilient parasite in nature is an idea. Such as this one: don’t think of Senator Mascaro in a speedo, a pink speedo. There is something even more insidious, and it’s not Mr. Rif’s unrequited love for Senator Traconis: it’s a negative impression, because it can put even a man as powerful as Eric Cantor on his back. 

Today’s legislation is predicated upon a flawed understanding of the liberties granted by the first amendment. The affirmation has demonized what has been consistently ruled as a legitimate expression of free speech, political contributions, on the grounds that they breed corruption and undermine democracy. The real problem however lies not in political contributions, that are transparent and regulated, but in the independent expenditures of political actions committees, that manipulate the political process from the shadows. The Supreme Court ruled in Buckley v. Valeo that the limits of the Federal Election Campaign Act only apply to expenditures made by candidates and their supporters, not by an organization such as a Super PAC that functions beyond the purview of the candidates themselves. Now Super PACs can donate through independent expenditures without disclosing the identity of their donors without limits, as explained by the DC court of appeals in the 2010 case Speechnow.org v. FEC. 

Thus today’s legislation only exacerbates the problem that it seeks to fix, because the amendment only applies to campaign spending and not to Super PACs. In a world in which campaign contributions are more heavily regulated, donors will converge their resources into Super PACs that will erode our democracy even more. George Washington Professor Thomas Siegle explains in his meta-analysis published in the 2010 Journal of Political Science that “because voters follow the media 4 times as much as the newspaper, negative advertising implemented by PACs lowers our constituents’ feeling of political effectiveness and trustworthiness, thereby on average decreasing voting turnout by 5% in each state”. 

