---
layout: post
tags: 
- domestic
- philosphical
author: Michael-Gallagher
---

During the last Winter Olympics, all eyes were on Russia.  This helped expose the terrible ways that homosexuals were treated, and helped label Russia as one of the most homophobic countries in the world.  Meanwhile, the United States is called “The Land of the Free” and is supposed to give people equal opportunity.  Guess which country allows homosexual men to donate blood.  That’s right, even Russia doesn’t discriminate against MSM blood donations, and neither should we, because we need the blood donations to save lives, it is discriminatory, and the reasons it was banned in the first place are not valid.

More donated blood saves lives.  The Williams Institute estimates that if the ban is lifted altogether, then 4.2 million more people would be eligible, leading to about 360,000 actual donations.  The American Red Cross says that each blood donation can save 3 people… so that’s 1,080,000 saved people.  A 12-month deferral results in 190,000 donations, or 570,000 saved people.  Considering that the FDA estimates an HIV transfusion rate of 1 in 2 million, there should be a miniscule chance of transmission. Russia understood this, because there aren’t many places to donate blood and many people don’t, so they needed all the blood they could get.  The American Red Cross says that every 2 seconds someone else needs blood.  The New York Blood Center even said in September that a blood shortage in New York has reached “crisis proportions”, according to ABC News.  There are many people still in need of blood in the United States and everywhere else.  It can even save the donors’ lives by telling them they have HIV, because 1 in 7 infected people don’t know they have it, and they are at risk of passing it to more people. The screening process will remove their blood from the system and it will alert the men that they have a disease.

Rules like this are also what cause such discrimination against the LGBT community.  The rule says that MSMs have to wait indefinitely, but a woman who has had relations with an MSM has to wait only a year.  The risks should be the same, but the wait time is not.  A.J. Walkley of the Huffington Post staged a protest against this restriction in 2006 and was contacted by The American Red Cross, American Blood Banks, and America’s Blood Centers contacted her and said that the rule was outdated, but their hands were tied by the FDA, who also contacted her and said they needed more testing.  The rule was made in 1983, a time when nobody really knew much about HIV or AIDS, so it was kind of a knee jerk reaction.  Now we can screen for HIV, and we know preventative methods.  There is no use in preventing a whole group of people from donating blood because of the actions of a few, when there are straight people who are just as much at risk but aren’t punished.  HIV risk depends on sexual behavior, not sexual orientation.
	
This rule is extremely outdated and only pushes the stereotypes that people have about homosexual people.  There are millions of people who are legally unable to give blood, and the fact that it is still in effect baffles me.  So, in an effort to save lives and promote equality, this bill must be passed.
